What do the three numbers on fertiliser containers represent?	The percentage by weight of the macronutrients N (Nitrogen), P (Phosphorus), and K (Potassium) available to plants
In what form is Nitrogen quoted on fertiliser labels?	As Ammonia (NH₃) or Nitrate (NO₃) or a mixture of both
In what form is Phosphorus expressed in fertiliser analysis?	Phosphorus Pentoxide (P₂O₅)
In what form is Potassium expressed in fertiliser analysis?	Potassium Oxide (K₂O)
How much Nitrogen is in a 25kg bag of 20:40:10 fertiliser?	5kg (20% of 25kg)
How much Phosphorus is in a 25kg bag of 20:40:10 fertiliser?	10kg (40% of 25kg)
How much Potassium is in a 25kg bag of 20:40:10 fertiliser?	2.5kg (10% of 25kg)
What is nutrient ratio?	The fertiliser analysis broken down into the lowest common multiplier
What do fertilisers 3:3:6 and 5:5:10 have in common?	Both have a nutrient ratio of 1:1:2
What is another name for 'Nutrient Ratio'?	PER (Plant Food Ratio)
What are inorganic fertilisers?	Fertilisers that are mined, quarried or manufactured
Why do inorganic fertilisers act quickly?	They contain plant nutrients in a form readily available for plant use
What are two characteristics of inorganic fertilisers?	Consistent analysis and uniform particle size
What response do inorganic fertilisers produce in plants?	A rapid response in plant growth
What are organic fertilisers?	Fertilisers of plant or animal origin
Why are organic fertilisers slow release?	They contain few nutrients in a soluble form; nutrients must be converted by soil organisms
What are two exceptions to slow-release organic fertilisers?	Dried blood and urea (both are fast acting)
What is a key safety advantage of organic fertilisers?	Less risk of scorch (fertiliser burn) to plant leaves or roots
What characterises slow-release fertiliser?	Organic fertilisers that vary in particle size; larger particles take longer to break down
How does controlled-release fertiliser work?	Has a climate-controlled mechanism; releases more nutrients as temperature rises and moisture is available
How long can controlled-release fertiliser be structured to provide nutrients?	Several months
What is the main characteristic of traditional/conventional release fertilisers?	Have no controlling factors; nutrients release, peak and finish quickly, often in weeks
What particle size characterises prilled fertiliser?	1.5 - 2.0mm
How is prilled fertiliser made?	By cooling liquid into solid pellets
What is a characteristic of prilled fertiliser?	Very round and free-flowing
What particle size characterises granular fertiliser?	2 - 4mm
What is a characteristic of granular fertiliser?	Free from dust
Why might liquid fertiliser be prone to leaching?	Because it is soluble and can wash away with water
What equipment might be needed for liquid fertiliser application?	Specialist equipment for foliar feed application
What NPK characteristics are recommended for Spring/Summer turf fertiliser?	High in N (Nitrogen)
Why is Spring/Summer turf fertiliser high in Nitrogen?	To compensate for N lost due to removal of clippings and aid recovery from wear
What NPK characteristics are recommended for Autumn/Winter turf fertiliser?	Low in N, high in K (Potassium)
Why is Autumn/Winter turf fertiliser low in N and high in K?	To harden up the grass to withstand frost and wear
What is base dressing?	Fertiliser applied to soil BEFORE sowing grass seed or laying turf
What is top dressing?	Fertiliser applied to established turf
When should base dressing be applied?	Before sowing grass seed or laying turf
When should top dressing be applied?	To established turf (existing grass)
What is the course code for Plant Nutrition?	NQGHS002
What is the learning outcome number for Fertiliser Terminology?	LO2